## Pre-requisites

The recommended Python version to run oletools is the latest **Python 3.x** (3.12 for now). Python 2.7 is still supported for the moment, even if it reached end of life in 2020 (for projects still using Python 2/PyPy 2 such as ViperMonkey). It is highly recommended to switch to Python 3 if possible.

## Recommended way to Download+Install/Update oletools: pip or pipx

Pip is included with Python since version 2.7.9 and 3.4. If it is not installed on your system, either upgrade Python or see [https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/)

### Linux, Mac OSX, Unix

To download and install/update the latest release version of oletools with all its dependencies, run the following command in a shell:

```
sudo -H pip install -U oletools[full]
```

The keyword `[full]` means that all optional dependencies will be installed, such as XLMMacroDeobfuscator. If you prefer a lighter version without optional dependencies, use the following command instead:

```
sudo -H pip install -U oletools
```

Replace `pip` by `pip3` or `pip2` to install on a specific Python version.

On some Linux distributions, it might not be allowed to install system-wide python packages with pip. In that case, pipx may be a better alternative to install oletools in a user virtual environment, and to install the command-line scripts oleid, olevba, etc:

```
pipx install oletools
```

**Important**: Since version 0.50, pip will automatically create convenient command-line scripts in /usr/local/bin to run all the oletools from any directory.

### Windows

To download and install/update the latest release version of oletools with all its dependencies, run the following command in a cmd window:

```
pip install -U oletools[full]
```

The keyword `[full]` means that all optional dependencies will be installed, such as XLMMacroDeobfuscator. If you prefer a lighter version without optional dependencies, use the following command instead:

```
pip install -U oletools
```

Replace `pip` by `pip3` or `pip2` to install on a specific Python version.

**Note**: with Python 3, you may need to open a cmd window with Administrator privileges in order to run pip and install for all users. If that is not possible, you may also install only for the current user by adding the `--user` option:

```
pip3 install -U --user oletools
```

**Important**: Since version 0.50, pip will automatically create convenient command-line scripts to run all the oletools from any directory: olevba, mraptor, oleid, rtfobj, etc.

---

## Uses 

[oleid · decalage2/oletools Wiki (github.com)](https://github.com/decalage2/oletools/wiki/oleid)

